The board runs a field oriented control(FOC) algorithm to manipulate the motors. FOC is a closed loop control system which converts the motor phase currents from stator-fixed to a field-synchronous coordinate system via the Clarke and Park transforms.  These transformed currents can be then decomposed into two time invariant vectors: the quadrature current which drives the motor and the direct current vector, which just causes waste heat. FOC seeks to minimize the direct axis current to maximize motor efficency. The time invariant nature of the transformed vectors allow FOC to provide smooth  and finely controlled acceleration over a wide variety of speed ranges.

The control system for the skateboard consists of two arrays of Force Sensitive Resistors(FSR), one in front and one in the back, located beneath the surface of the board.  Each array consists of 6 FSRs, three on the left and three on the right.  The rider's weight is distributed onto the FSRs via the usage of O-rings and an acceleration reference is generated based on changes in weight distribution from
a level riding position that was determined via a calibration at the beginning of the ride.  Through the usage of an on board inertial measurement unit, these calibration values are compensated in realtime for any changes in board inclination, which otherwise might prevoke unwanted speed changes. The generated acceleration reference is then fed into the field oriented control algorithm providing it with a target RPM to achieve.  In addition, there is a seperate FSR in the very back of the board which serves as a brake when force is applied to it; the degree of braking force dependent on the force applied to the FSR.

The actual electronics consist of 4 PCBs.  Two of these PCBs are motor controllers on which the FOC algorithm runs, with each independently controlling one of the board's two hub motors.  The other two boards contain the FSRs and analog signal conditioning circuitry.  The front FSR board is a slave of the back one and does nothing but transmit its FSR values to the back board via CANBUS.  The back board contains not only the other set of FSRs, but additionally the IMU and it is what calculates the actual acceleration reference and then transmits it via CANBUS to the motor control boards.  All boards are handshaked with each other when the boards are powered on and each board is constantly checking to see if the others are still responding as expected; if not, there are a number of actions that will be taken depending on the situtation and whether or not the error is critical (losing the acceleration reference boards and thus the users ability to control the board compared to say losing a single motor controller board when the board can run reasonably well with only one active).
